this is a hairstyle that was rather
common in the or was in vogue in the 70s
in Nigeria South Korea wants every
little Nigerian girl playing with his
dolls meet Nika
Aziza and wha Ola from his queens of
Africa collection they come complete
with Nigerian names and cultural wear
unlike most all sold in the West African
nation the queens of Africa dolls
actually was the initial concept and
that came about when I was looking to
like in a shopping for dolls for a
cousin or niece of mine and I realized
that you know we have a great lot of
Western influence on kids you know over
time and it's so subliminal that it's
actually not noticed or realized that
epiphany led Okoye to put his
entrepreneurial spirit to work in 2006
he paid to have the dolls molded in the
likeness of women from the three major
ethnic groups in Nigeria ebo house' and
Yoruba each with different skin tones so
far Okoye the son of a wealthy Nigerian
businessman received more support from
the Nigerian press than he has from
Nigerian girls how are consumers
responding to your line of dolls so far
I will not I'm not impressed with where
we are in terms of sales when Okoye
began researching the market he found
that girls either resisted the queens of
Africa or gravitated to the anecca doll
which has the lightest complexion you'd
find that what they find acceptable is
most of what they see on TV you know the
Britney's bears the Paris Hilton Santino
all the likes of them the Kim
Kardashian's and all that and they're
longing to want to be like that
Okoye ass issue is reminiscent of the
doll experiment used in Brown versus
Board of Education the US Supreme Court
case that led to the desegregation of
schools in the 1950s dr. Kenneth Clark
presented children with both a white and
black doll to test their attitudes
towards race the majority favored the
white doll yet this seems like an
unlikely twist
in a country where black people are the
majority of the 150 million residents
and in a culture that celebrates its
homegrown actresses musicians and models
in yet another case of irony Okoye has
had a hard time reaching the local
market because he purposely made his
queens of Africa more affordable than
foreign dolls some people back here
thinks it's a think it's a status thing
why should I buy that when I can afford
to buy like you know the High School
Musical or the Barbie dolls that cost
like what fourteen thousand when you
know this cost one nine thousand you
know oh that's for people that can't
afford to buy this once you get that
kind of you know attitude from some
parents to rather than give up Okoye
reset his vision he created a line of
motivational comic and story books
written about some of the most
influential women in Nigeria's history
he also has plans to launch an animated
series to build a more interactive
experience with the dolls since the
dolls can speak for themselves his hope
is that the reading material gets his
message across
for independent sources ABI Ishola